Moving along in our development process,
in this video we'll cover step three,
modifying the computeCartTotals
to call the new method persistCartItems.
All righty, so let's kind of move up
to our computeCartTotals method
'cause that's what we currently have in place.
And what we'll do is the last call here,
we'll make a call to this new method.
So we'll persist the cart data.
And we'll accomplish this by calling persistCartItems.
All righty, so that's pretty much it for the coding.
Now I'm getting a little excited.
I want to go through and test this out.
So let's make sure that our backend is up and running.
If not, go ahead and start it now.
And then swing over to Visual Studio Code
and we'll go ahead and start up our Angular app.
Now I'm moving to the browser and visit my application.
And I'll just add some items to the cart and I'll make sure
that things will survive after the refresh.
So right now we have four items in our cart.
Go ahead and test the browser refresh.
And yes, success. Look at that.
So we still have our four items
in the cart with our correct price.
So it did survive the browser refresh. A sigh of relief.
And now one other scenario was testing the login, right,
because once we do the login and this whole Okta
OAuth thing, they do a redirect, effectively doing
another browser refresh.
So let's basically just test the login piece here.
So now we're logged into our application and yes,
we still have our four items in our cart.
Okay, good.
So I'm happy this browser refresh thing
is working as desired.
Good job.
But one thing to remember is that we're using
sessionStorage so it's only in the browser's memory.
So once a browser tab is closed
then the data is no longer available.
So if we were to exit out of our browser
and start it again, then it'll lose everything
and our shopping cart will start at zero.
So let's go ahead and test this out.
So I'll just do a quick log out here
and then I'll quit the web browser.
And I'll start it back up again
and I'll go visit my application.
And I notice here, the data's lost.
Everything's back to zero because we're using
sessionStorage so the data's only in the browser's memory.
Once the browser tab goes away or the browser is exited,
we lose everything.
Now, if you'd like for your cart data to persist
on browser restarts, then we can simply change the type
of storage we're using.
So instead of using sessionStorage,
we can make use of localStorage.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
So I'll just set it up here where for the storage
I'm making use of localStorage.
And this is a reference to the browser's local storage
and we get access to this object for free.
And remember, with localStorage the data is persisted
and it survives browser restarts.
All right, so just swing back into my application.
Let's just add some items to our shopping cart.
So at the moment, we have X number of items,
five items in our shopping cart right now.
And let's go ahead and exit the browser.
And then back into our app. And then success.
Look, this is great. So it remembered our data.
So the data's persisted and it survives
the browser restarts.
So we can just do some other testing here with localStorage.
We see that the refresh works out just fine.
So it keeps track of all that information.
And also just going through the process here
of just doing a login here to make sure
that this all works for localStorage.
And then as expected, you know,
everything works out as we would like.
Good job.